README.md, before:


<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# easyicer

<!-- badges: start -->
<!-- badges: end -->

This R package contains the `summed_output()` function which takes a
column as a character string storing a vector of numeric values within a
dataframe and calculates the sum of the vector. The `icercalc()` and
`icerplot()` functions can be used to calculate and plot ICER values
based on inputs obtained from `summed_output()`. It is designed to help
users automate repetitive sum operations based on user-defined variable
groupings and filter conditions and repeat ICER analyses. This package
contains multiple dependencies to support syntax compatibility and
plotting with ggplot2.

## Installation

You can install the development version of easyicer with:

    install.packages("devtools")
    devtools::install_github("stat545ubc-2024/easyicer", ref = "1.2.0")

## Usage

Here is a basic example of using this package with the
`palmerpenguins::penguins` dataset:

``` r
library(easyicer)
library(palmerpenguins)

# Create a filter condition and store as an object
sex_male_year_2007 <- palmerpenguins::penguins$sex == "male" & palmerpenguins::penguins$year == 2007

summed_output(data = palmerpenguins::penguins,
              group_vars = c("island", "species"),
              sum_var = "bill_depth_mm",
              filter_vars = sex_male_year_2007,
              na.rm = TRUE)
#> # A tibble: 5 × 3
#> # Groups:   island [3]
#>   island    species   cumulative
#>   <fct>     <fct>          <dbl>
#> 1 Biscoe    Adelie          91.5
#> 2 Biscoe    Gentoo         261. 
#> 3 Dream     Adelie         194. 
#> 4 Dream     Chinstrap      249. 
#> 5 Torgersen Adelie         143.
```

Commit message:

Addition of vignette for package and addition of vignette details to package files

README.md, after:


<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# easyicer

<!-- badges: start -->
<!-- badges: end -->

This R package contains the `summed_output()` function which takes a
column as a character string storing a vector of numeric values within a
dataframe and calculates the sum of the vector. The `icercalc()` and
`icerplot()` functions can be used to calculate and plot ICER values
based on inputs obtained from `summed_output()`. It is designed to help
users automate repetitive sum operations based on user-defined variable
groupings and filter conditions and repeat ICER analyses. This package
contains multiple dependencies to support syntax compatibility and
plotting with ggplot2.

## Installation

You can install the latest version of easyicer with:

    install.packages("devtools")
    devtools::install_github("stat545ubc-2024/easyicer", ref = "1.2.0")

## Usage

Here is a basic example of using the `summed_output()` function with
this package with the `palmerpenguins::penguins` dataset:

``` r
library(easyicer)
library(palmerpenguins)

# Create a filter condition and store as an object
sex_male_year_2007 <- palmerpenguins::penguins$sex == "male" & palmerpenguins::penguins$year == 2007

summed_output(data = palmerpenguins::penguins,
              group_vars = c("island", "species"),
              sum_var = "bill_depth_mm",
              filter_vars = sex_male_year_2007,
              na.rm = TRUE)
#> # A tibble: 5 × 3
#> # Groups:   island [3]
#>   island    species   cumulative
#>   <fct>     <fct>          <dbl>
#> 1 Biscoe    Adelie          91.5
#> 2 Biscoe    Gentoo         261. 
#> 3 Dream     Adelie         194. 
#> 4 Dream     Chinstrap      249. 
#> 5 Torgersen Adelie         143.
```

\*For more detailed usage of this package, please refer to the vignette
for this package.
